So let's look at some demos,
some examples.
What are people doing with
accessibility out in the wild?
So I just picked a few
kind of like good or bad,
the ugly,
let's go see what people are doing.
And I think there are some
really thoughtful,
sophisticated touches on websites,
and we'll see.
Sometimes I feel that that goal, that
purpose of how is someone gonna use this?
Even when the care is there, the attention
is there, sometimes that gets lost.
So kind of keep that in mind of
thinking through the full workflow,
put yourself in someone's shoes and
think about, okay, if I can't use a mouse,
am I really gonna be able to use this?
Not just like, it kind of works,
but really, cuz that's the stakes.
We can't go part way, we really have
to think through the experience and
working with people with disabilities,
that can be helpful.
We'll talk about that.
But I think as developers,
we have to get those muscles,
I guess we have to strengthen those
muscles of like thinking through
the user experience for accessibility.
So let's start with Stripe, stripe.com,
pretty influential finance
startup on the bigger side.
Gorgeous.
They have great gradients and colors and
type and it's just like their brand is so
consistent.
They do a lot of really thoughtful
things with their design system.
And so, let's test it.
I think they've been working
on accessibility a little bit.
It's not been the best, historically, so
I was very curious to see what's going on.
So the first thing I always do is Tab,
Tab through the keyboard.
So they've got a mega menu.
They open it when I Tab through, but
they don't force me through all
of the sub items, so that's nice.
I can use the arrow keys to navigate
through instead of Tab, I can hit Escape.
It moved me back somewhere,
but my focus was lost.
So that's one little improvement we could
make is show the focus outline when your
focus goes back.
Cuz the Escape key is a convention for
focus management to put
me back where I was.
I always try it even if it isn't wired up.
[LAUGH] So, now if I hit Tab again,
somehow I think maybe the focus didn't
get put back, because my focus is
down below the header now, and
I didn't actually go
through all the items.
So I think we might have lost focus.
And what Chrome will do, not all
browsers do this, but it will try and
replace your focus in the, I think it's
called the sequential focus access point,
something like that.
And if you delete a node that
you're currently focused on,
that's their API to figure
out where to put it,
instead of they don't kick you
all the way back to the top.
So I'm kind of close, but
not really where I need to be.
So if we manually manage that, we'll guide
the user back to where they need to be
instead of just leaving
it up to the browser.
So there's our first
focus management lesson.
But they do have focus outlines.
That's great.
I mean we're fine-tuning something that
has some accessibility mojo going already.
That's a good start.
So, now we're down to
an auto animating widget.
It's really pretty.
It has all these icons, they're focusable,
but they are automatically animating.
There's no pause button, so that's
an accessibility violation, actually.
We have to allow a way to pause,
stop or hide, and
auto moving animations,
auto playing video.
So also, I love that I can focus on these,
but they disappear.
I'm gonna watch it for a minute.
So I'm focused on one,
I guess that one's still visible.
But if I Tab around, yeah, I don't know
that these all need to be focusable.
And they actually go to places,
these are links.
I got one that I can't.
So if you do Tab around, sometimes
you Tab on one that you can't see.
So it's just interesting.
Yeah, there's a lot going on.
So kind of last thought on the motion
is if I open my system settings and
I go to Accessibility, Display,
there's this setting called
Reduce Motion that I had turned on, but
the site is not stopping the motion.
So that's one thing they could do is
only animate if that is unchecked or
if there is no setting for it,
that's another way to do it.
But it would be kind of distracting
if you're really affected by motion,
it gives you seizures at worst, or
people with ADHD sometimes have
a very hard time staying focused.
So any time that you can opt
in to reducing motion to
just not animate, do it.
[LAUGH] It's pretty easy and
it can really help with people's
distractibility and not cause harm.
And these icons, unless you hover,
you don't see what these are.
So they're really cute icons, it just
it's not always intuitive what they are.
And if you can hover on
them to see what they are,
you should be able to see what they
are when you focus with the keyboard.
So, yeah, a lot going on here.
And we could keep going, but
i wanna go to the next site.
So, another one, we have a question.
>> So really quickly,
i guess i just wanted to get some
information on what's generally expected
when navigating with arrow keys?
Because when I was trying to
navigate through the mega menus,
I tried pressing left and
right and it wasn't always working.
I wasn't sure if there was like a general,
I don't want to call them best practices,
but I guess expected conventions for
people navigating through things.
>> Great question.
So question about the arrow keys.
So, when we hit Tab,
I'm gonna go back to the top.
I just clicked up the top and
it set my focus point up there.
So when we have links, and
default buttons, and form controls,
they are reachable with Tab.
And the arrow keys are more for
appy desktop menus,
like the Chrome desktop menu.
Or if you have something like a date
picker where you don't wanna tab through
every day in a month.
That we wanna use something that we will
learn about a little later called roving
tab index.
Some of this depends on
what roles things have.
So we don't wanna just wire up
the arrow keys for every mega menu.
It really depends how it's marked up for
that to be clear to a screen
reader user and to work properly.
So we could go and look.
I think they probably made the top level
not work with the arrow keys because
of how it's marked up.
So I'm looking in the DevTools.
And I see some tab index on a div,
so I already know
that could be an issue because a div
is not an interactive element.
We can put tab index on it, but
in a screen reader it's still a div.
So in our initial kind of keyboard test,
I'm really glad you asked this because
we only looked with the keyboard.
I didn't test it with a browser extension
yet or with a screen reader yet.
It is possible to make things that
work really well with a keyboard and
don't work at all on a screen reader.
So, we kind of have to do this
multi-pass testing on it.
But if we start with the keyboard and we
test with a browser extension like Acts,
a lot of the time we can catch some
of the stuff before we even fire up
a screen reader.
But we will do that too.
So for this one, I think they
didn't include the arrow keys for
some of the items, but yeah,
if I were gonna work on this,
I would evaluate kind
of the overall picture.
What roles do we have?
How should it work?
When you are looking for
those conventions,
the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide
can really give you some ideas.
So these patterns and components, the
ARIA APG, these are meant to show you how
to do some of these patterns, I will
caution they're not production ready.
[LAUGH] But you can at least see
what's the expected patterns for,
say, a menu or lists of links.
They do a really good job of
differentiating those things.
Question.
>> Will we be talking
more about solutions for
examples like the animation you showed?
I'm realizing this is
a very common example, and
I think it would be difficult to encourage
stakeholders to make any changes to
exciting landing page animations
that are core to the actual design.
I'm curious about alternative approaches.
>> Great question.
I mean, in this workshop,
we're not diving too deeply into motion.
I will say that my web app workshop,
we did.
We had a whole exercise with motion.
So I think we are gonna talk
about providing alternatives
with user interfaces when we talk
about minimum viable products.
So-
>> Yeah, for that,
you showed prefers reduced motion, right?
>> Correct.
Yeah, there's a CSS media query.
So I guess for the motion piece, one
piece of advice I could say is that you
can use that media query for
people who say, I don't want motion.
And for anyone else who doesn't even
check that setting, it'll look the same.
So I think for people, stakeholders that
you have to convince, you could say, well,
if you never turn on reduced motion,
then you won't even see it being
static [LAUGH], you won't even know.
But the people who need
that setting will benefit.
So yeah, maybe that argument could help.
Okay, so another one from Stripe.
This is their checkout
kind of use case example.
So we have one for one time payments.
And so the examples themselves,
that's part of evaluating these things.
Sometimes the examples have components
around them that are just part of
the demo.
So you kind of have to differentiate
which pieces am I really evaluating.
But for this one, I think they use
components that are available throughout.
So there are some radio buttons here.
There's some little toggles.
So what I wanted to show you here is that
there these dropdowns that I can reach and
operate with the mouse, but
I can't use a keyboard.
So that's like when you're
testing with the keyboard,
if you skip past things like that,
you know immediately, I need to dig in.
What's going on here?
So that's your first or
one of the first gonna get like,
what should make your
spidey senses go off?
And we have a whole section on that later,
[LAUGH] but this is one of those things.
And I inspect it and
the Chrome DevTools, guess what?
It's a div with no interactive role,
nothing like button or, I mean,
it's a plane div, it's a generic element,
it has tab index of zero on it.
So I can reach it, but I can't
understand what it is if I'm in a screen
reader cuz it's just a generic element.
So yeah, there's other pieces
that you have to think about,
especially when you're
making interactive widgets.
Let's do one more.
GitHub.
They've done a lot of really
great work for accessibility.
I think a lot of organizations have, and
sometimes they'll be stronger in some
aspects than others, but I think GitHub
has a lot of really neat interactive
widgets that are more
on the advanced side.
They have a skip link at the top,
so that's super helpful.
They have a lot of these interactive
widgets that you can Tab onto.
If you hit the Enter key it will open.
You can hit Escape, it sends you back.
I see my focus outline
of where I was placed.
They have these really neat kind of like,
not list box,
these pop-ups that trap your focus
in here so I can use arrow keys.
That focus style on these
items is pretty faint.
I think the blue might have
worked a little better.
But I can cycle around through
all this list of items,
I can get to all of these things and
I can use them.
I'm not getting stuck behind this layer,
and I can hit Escape to go back again.
So as you're navigating around
the keyboard, I can highlight so
many issues just with the keyboard,
before I even open a browser extension.
So if we do that as our kind
of our first workflow step,
we're gonna catch a lot of stuff.
And do some of these
workflow steps on sites, and
we'll detail some of those
steps a little bit later.
But that's like a little introduction.
>> Got a question.
So companies that are big like Stripe, how
is it that they can miss some basic stuff
like not being able to focus a drop down,
for example?
Do you think it's just
speed of deployments or
there's no solid QA process or
maybe all of the above?
Or, yeah, we don't really know,
right, but how could that be missed?
>> Yeah, I think it's all the above,
but I think the biggest thing is
that when there isn't a culture of testing
it, people just don't think about it.
And people reviewing it, don't test it.
It's just like, it's not part of the
definition of done, we'll talk about that.
So yeah, there's kind of just like a lack
of accountability, and that is so common.
I'm definitely not singling them out.
I think they do a lot of really beautiful
work, it's just kind of the way things go.
So we have to find those processes
that do make it repeatable and
that do get that people thinking about it,
cuz some of this stuff is not that hard.
You just take a little bit of time,
get in the habit, you do it regularly,
you find all kinds of stuff.
And you don't have to be a super
expert at accessibility either.
I mean, it helps to gain your knowledge
and that's what we're here to do.
But I think there's some really basic
stuff that if you know what to look for,
it's pretty easy to find.